---
title: 
layout: default
---

# Neural Nets Overview

Neural networks are a set of algorithms, modeled after the human brain, that are designed to recognize patterns. They interpret sensation through a kind of machine perception. The patterns they recognize are numerical, contained in vectors, to which all real-world data, be it images, sound, text or time series, must be translated. 

Deep learning is a name for a certain type of stacked neural network composed of several node layers. (A node is a place where computation happens, loosely patterned on the human neuron and firing when it encounters the right stimulus. A node layer is a row of those neuronlike switches that turn on or off as the input is fed through the net.) Each layer's output is simultaneously the subsequent layer's input, starting from an initial input layer.  

Deep-learning networks are distinguished from the more commonplace single-hidden-layer neural networks by their **depth**; that is, the number of node layers through which data passes in a multistep process of pattern recognition. Traditional machine learning relies on shallow nets, composed of one input and one output layer, and a hidden layer in between. More than three layers (including input and output) qualifies as "deep" learning. 

In deep-learning networks, each layer of nodes is trains on a distinct set of features based on the previous layer's outputs. The further you advance into the neural net, the more complex the features your nodes can recognize, since they aggregate and recombine features from the previous layer. 

This is known as **feature hierarchy**, and it is a hierarchy of increasing complexity and abstraction. It makes deep-learning networks capable of handling very large, high-dimensional data sets with billions of parameters being passed through [nonlinear functions](../glossary.html#nonlineartransformfunction). 

Above all, these nets are capable of discovering latent structures within **unsupervised, unstructured data**, which is the vast majority of data in the world. Another word for unstructured data is simply raw media; i.e. pictures, texts, video and audio recordings. Therefore, one of the problems deep learning solves best is in processing and clustering the world's raw, unlabeled media, discerning similarities and anomalies in data that no human has organized in a relational database. 

For example, deep learning can take a million images, and cluster them according to their similarities: cats in one corner, ice breakers in another, and in a third all the photos of your grandmother. This is the basis of so-called smart photo albums. 

Now apply that same idea to other data types: Deep learning might cluster raw text such as emails or news articles. Emails full of angry complaints might cluster in one corner of the vector space, while satisfied customers, or spambot messages, might cluster in others. This is the basis of various messaging filters, and can be used in customer-relationship management (CRM). The same applkies to voice messages. 

With time series, data might cluster around normal/healthy behavior and anomalous/dangerous behavior. If the time series data is being generated by a smart phone, it will provide insight into users; if it is being generated by an autopart, it might be used to prevent catastrophic breakdowns.  

Deep-learning networks perform **automatic feature extraction** without human intervention, unlike most traditional machine-learning algorithms. Given that feature extraction is a task that can take teams of data scientists years to accomplish, deep learning is a way to circumvent the chokepoint of limited experts. It augments the powers of small data science teams, which by their nature do not scale. 

When training on unsupervised data, each node layer in a deep network learns features automatically by repeatedly trying to reconstruct the input from which it draws its samples, attempting to minimize the difference between the network's guesses and the probability distribution of the input data itself. Restricted Boltzmann machines, for examples, create so-called reconstructions in this manner.  

In the process, these networks learn to recognize correlations between certain relevant features and optimal results -- they draw connections between feature signals and what those features represent, whether it be a full reconstruction, or with supervised data, a label. 

A deep-learning network trained on supervised data can then be applied to unstructured data, giving it access to much more input than machine-learning nets. This is a recipe for higher performance: the more data a net can train on, the more accurate it is likely to be. (Bad algorithms trained on lots of data can outperform good algorithms trained on very little.) Deep learning's ability to process and learn from huge quantities of unsupervised data give it a distinct advantage over previous algorithms. 

Deep-learning networks end in an output layer: a logistic, or softmax, classifier that assigns a likelihood to a particular outcome or label. We call that predictive, but it is predictive in a broad sense. Given raw data in the form of an image, a deep-learning network may decide, for example, that the input data is 90 percent likely to represent a person. 

## Feedforward Networks

Our goal in using a neural net is to arrive at the point of least error as fast as possible. We are running a race. The starting line for the race is the state in which our weights and biases are initialized, and the finish line is the state of those parameters when they are capable of producing accurate classifications and predictions. 

The race itself involves many steps, and each of those steps resembles the others. Just like a runner, we will engage in a repetetive act over and over to arrive at the end. 

The collections of weights and biases, whether they are in their start or end state, are also called a model, because they are an attempt to model the data's relationship to ground-truth labels. Models normally start out bad and end up less bad, changing over time as the neural network updates those weights and biases. 

This is because a neural network is born in ignorance. It does not know which weights and biases will translate the input best to make the correct guesses. It has to start out with a guess, and then try to make better guesses sequentially as it learns from its mistakes. 

Here is a simple explanation of what happens when a neural network learns (more precisely, we'll discuss a feedforward neural net, the simplest architecture to explain.)

Input enters the network. The coefficients, or weights, map that input to a set of guesses the network makes at the end. 

    input * weight = guess

Weighted input results in a guess about what that input is. The neural then takes its guess and compares it to a ground-truth about the data, effectively asking an expert "Did I get this right?" 

    ground truth - guess = error

The difference between the network's guess and the ground truth is its *error*. The network measures that error, and walks the error back over its model, adjusting weights to the extent that they contributed to the error. 

    adjustment = error * weight's contribution to error

The three pseudo-mathematical formulas above account for the three key functions of neural networks: scoring input, calculating loss and applying an update to the model -- to begin the three-step process over again. A neural network is a corrective feedback loop, rewarding weights that support its correct guesses, and punishing weights that lead it to err. 

The name for one commonly used optimization function that adjusts weights according to the error they caused is called "gradient descent." 

Gradient is another word for slope, and slope, in its typical form on an x-y graph, represents how two variables relate to each other: rise over run, the change in money over the change in time, etc. In this particular case, the slope we care about describes the relationship between the network's error and a single weight; i.e. that is, how does the error vary as the weight is adjusted. 

To put a finer point on it, which weight will produce the least error? Which one correctly represents the signals contained in the input data, and translates them to a correct classification? Which one can hear "nose" in an input image, and know that should be labeled as a face and not a frying pan?

As a neural network learns, it slowly adjusts many weights so that they can map signal to meaning correctly. The relationship between network *Error* and each of those *weights* is a derivative, *dE/dw*, and we use the chain rule to compute it. Since each weight is just one factor in a deep network that involves many transforms, we use the chain rule to march back through the networks activations and outputs to arrive finally at the weight in question. 

The chain rule in calculus states that D{f(g(x))} = f'(g(x)) * g'(x). That is, the derivative of the composition of two functions -- f(x) and g(x) -- is equal to the derivate of f of g of x multipled by the derivative of g of x. 

## Neural Networks & Artificial Intelligence 

In some circles, neural networks are thought of as "brute force" AI, because they start with a blank slate and hammer their way through to an accurate model. They are effective, but to some eyes inefficient in their approach to modeling, which can't make assumptions about functional dependencies between output and input. That said, gradient descent is not recombining every weight with every other to find the best match -- it's method of pathfinding shrinks the relevant weight space therefore the number of updates by many orders of magnitude. 

## Introductory Resources

For people just getting started with deep learning, the following tutorials and videos provide an easy entrance to the fundamental ideas of feedforward networks:

* [Neural Networks Demystified](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bxe2T-V8XRs) (A seven-video series)
* [A Neural Network in 11 Lines of Python](https://iamtrask.github.io/2015/07/12/basic-python-network/)
* [A Step-by-Step Backpropagation Example](http://mattmazur.com/2015/03/17/a-step-by-step-backpropagation-example/)
* [Restricted Boltzmann Machines](../restrictedboltzmannmachine.html)
