README.md, before:

# Monorepo of Deeplearning4j

Welcome to the new monorepo of Deeplearning4j that contains the source code for all the following projects, in addition to the original repository of Deeplearning4j moved to [deeplearning4j](deeplearning4j):

 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/libnd4j
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/nd4j
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/datavec
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/arbiter
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/nd4s
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/gym-java-client
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/rl4j
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/scalnet
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/jumpy

To build everything, we can use commands like
```
./change-cuda-versions.sh x.x
./change-scala-versions.sh 2.xx
./change-spark-versions.sh x
mvn clean install -Dmaven.test.skip -Dlibnd4j.cuda=x.x -Dlibnd4j.compute=xx
```
or
```
mvn clean install -Ptestresources -Ptest-native -Dlibnd4j.cuda=x.x -Dlibnd4j.compute=xx
```
Also included in the monorepo is a tutorial series in Zeppelin available in:
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/deeplearning4j/tree/master/deeplearning4j/dl4j-examples/tutorials

Commit message:

Scatter ops (#6048)
* implementation of scatter helper, scatter_min, scatter_max

* add file scatter_max

* get rid of known openMP asan bug

* few tests updated

* - min/max wrappers
- few tests added

* apply max translation to input in softmax

* provide input shift in softmax_cross_entropy_loss_with_logits

* change input validation in scatter ops in order to take into account old fashion vectors shape

* Mention examples repo

* provide correct work with old fashion vector shapes in scatterHelper

* - trigger jenkins
- fix minor compilation issue

README.md, after:

# Monorepo of Deeplearning4j

Welcome to the new monorepo of Deeplearning4j that contains the source code for all the following projects, in addition to the original repository of Deeplearning4j moved to [deeplearning4j](deeplearning4j):

 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/libnd4j
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/nd4j
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/datavec
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/arbiter
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/nd4s
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/gym-java-client
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/rl4j
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/scalnet
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/jumpy

To build everything, we can use commands like
```
./change-cuda-versions.sh x.x
./change-scala-versions.sh 2.xx
./change-spark-versions.sh x
mvn clean install -Dmaven.test.skip -Dlibnd4j.cuda=x.x -Dlibnd4j.compute=xx
```
or
```
mvn clean install -Ptestresources -Ptest-native -Dlibnd4j.cuda=x.x -Dlibnd4j.compute=xx
```

# Want some examples?
We have separate repository with various examples available: https://github.com/deeplearning4j/dl4j-examples

p.s. Also included in the monorepo is a tutorial series in Zeppelin available in:
 * https://github.com/deeplearning4j/deeplearning4j/tree/master/deeplearning4j/dl4j-examples/tutorials
